docs/USER_GUIDE.md, before:

# HookAnchor User Guide

HookAnchor is a powerful command launcher for macOS that provides instant access to applications, files, URLs, and custom commands through a keyboard-driven popup interface.

## Table of Contents

1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
4. [Key Features](#key-features)
5. [Command Types](#command-types)
6. [Keyboard Shortcuts](#keyboard-shortcuts)
7. [Creating Commands](#creating-commands)
8. [Tips and Tricks](#tips-and-tricks) 
9. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Installation

### Requirements

- macOS 11.0 or later
- A keyboard trigger method (see Setup Keyboard Trigger below)

### Installation Steps

1. **Download HookAnchor**
   - Download the latest `HookAnchor-{version}.dmg` from [releases](https://github.com/oblinger/hookanchor/releases)

2. **Install the Application**
   - Open the DMG file
   - Drag HookAnchor.app to your Applications folder

3. **First Launch - Bypass Security Warning**
   Because HookAnchor is not signed with an Apple Developer certificate, macOS will block it on first launch.

   **If you get "Move to Trash" dialog:**
   a. Click **Cancel** (do NOT move to trash)
   b. Open **System Settings** → **Privacy & Security**
   c. Scroll down to the **Security** section
   d. You should see: *"HookAnchor.app was blocked from use because it is not from an identified developer"*
   e. Click **Open Anyway**
   f. In the confirmation dialog, click **Open**

   **Alternative method:**
   - Right-click `HookAnchor.app` in Applications folder
   - Hold **Option** key and select **Open**
   - Click **Open** in the security dialog

   This security bypass is only needed once. After the first successful launch, HookAnchor opens normally and creates configuration files in `~/.config/hookanchor/`

4. **Launch HookAnchor**: Open HookAnchor from Applications to complete initial setup

5. **Grant Permissions**: Allow accessibility permissions when prompted

6. **Setup Keyboard Trigger** (choose one method below - **Option 1 is recommended**)

## Setting Up Keyboard Triggers

You can trigger HookAnchor using any of these methods:

### Option 1: Built-in Global Hotkey (Simplest - No Setup Required!)

**HookAnchor includes a native global hotkey system that works out of the box!**

By default, HookAnchor uses **Option+Space** (⌥Space) to show the popup from any application.

**To change the hotkey:**

1. Open the configuration file:
   ```bash
   open ~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml
   ```

2. Find the `global_hotkey` line (around line 21):
   ```yaml
   global_hotkey: "Option+Space"
   ```

3. Change it to your preferred key combination:
   ```yaml
   global_hotkey: "Option+`"          # Option+Backtick
   global_hotkey: "Command+Shift+Space"  # Cmd+Shift+Space
   global_hotkey: "Control+Space"     # Control+Space
   ```

4. Save the file and restart HookAnchor

**Supported keys:**
- **Modifiers**: Option, Command, Control, Shift
- **Keys**: Space, Return, Enter, `, Backtick
- **Format**: Use `+` to combine (e.g., "Option+Space", "Command+Shift+Return")

**Advantages:**
- ✅ Works from **any application** system-wide
- ✅ No third-party software needed
- ✅ No system settings to configure
- ✅ Just works!

### Option 2: Keyboard Maestro (Power Users)

If you use Keyboard Maestro:

1. Create a new macro
2. Set trigger to your desired key (e.g., Caps Lock, F13, or any combo)
3. Add action: **Open a File, Folder or Application**
4. Select: `/Applications/HookAnchor.app`
5. Enable "Reopen" option for instant triggering

### Option 3: Karabiner-Elements (Caps Lock)

For using Caps Lock as trigger:

1. Download [Karabiner-Elements](https://karabiner-elements.pqrs.org/)
2. Install and grant permissions
3. Add this rule to use Caps Lock:
   ```json
   {
     "description": "Caps Lock opens HookAnchor",
     "manipulators": [{
       "type": "basic",
       "from": { "key_code": "caps_lock" },
       "to": [{ "shell_command": "open /Applications/HookAnchor.app" }]
     }]
   }
   ```

### Option 4: Other Automation Tools

HookAnchor works with any tool that can launch applications:
- **BetterTouchTool**: Assign to gestures or keys
- **Alfred**: Create a workflow to launch HookAnchor
- **Raycast**: Add as a script command
- **Hammerspoon**: Configure in Lua script

## Getting Started

### Triggering HookAnchor

Once you've set up your keyboard trigger, press your chosen key combination to open the HookAnchor popup. The popup displays a searchable list of all your commands.

### Basic Navigation

- **Type to search** - Start typing to filter commands
- **Arrow keys** - Navigate through commands
- **Enter** - Execute selected command
- **Escape** - Close the popup

## Basic Usage

### Searching Commands

1. Press your configured trigger key to open HookAnchor
2. Start typing part of a command name
3. Matching commands appear instantly
4. Use arrow keys to select
5. Press Enter to execute

### Command Organization

Commands are organized into **patches** (groups). When you see a command like:
```
Work > Project Setup
```
This means "Project Setup" is in the "Work" patch.

### Submenus

Similar commands are automatically grouped into submenus. For example:
```
Git >
```
Pressing Enter on this opens a submenu with all Git-related commands.

## Key Features

### 1. Universal Command Launcher

Launch anything from one place:
- Applications
- Websites
- Folders
- Shell commands
- Custom scripts

### 2. Smart Search

- **Fuzzy matching** - Type "prj" to find "Project"
- **Case insensitive** - "TERMINAL" matches "Terminal"
- **Partial matching** - "doc" matches "Documents"

### 3. Markdown Integration

HookAnchor scans configured folders for markdown files and creates commands from:
- Anchor files (markdown files matching folder names)
- Code blocks in markdown
- Links in markdown files

### 4. URL Scheme Support

Use `hook://` URLs from anywhere:
```bash
open "hook://terminal"    # Opens Terminal
open "hook://slack"       # Opens Slack
```

### 5. Context Grabber

Capture context from any application:
1. Press `+` in the popup
2. Enter a name for the command
3. Wait for countdown
4. Click on any window/application
5. HookAnchor creates a command for it

## Command Types

| Type | Description | Example |
|------|-------------|---------|
| **app** | Launch macOS applications | `Terminal : app Terminal`<br>`Chrome : app Google Chrome` |
| **url** | Open websites in default browser | `GitHub : url https://github.com`<br>`Google : url https://google.com` |
| **folder** | Open folders in Finder | `Downloads : folder ~/Downloads`<br>`Projects : folder ~/Documents/Projects` |
| **cmd** | Execute shell commands | `List Files : cmd ls -la`<br>`Server : cmd npm run dev` |
| **anchor** | Navigate to project folders with markdown files | `My Project : anchor ~/Projects/MyProject/MyProject.md` |
| **alias** | Reference other commands | `Term : alias Terminal`<br>`GH : alias GitHub` |

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| **Escape** | Close popup |
| **Enter** | Execute command |
| **Arrow Keys** | Navigate commands |
| **/** | Launch first folder matching search |
| **=** | Template: Edit command from current input |
| **;** | Template: Edit currently selected command |
| **+** | Template (Grab): Capture window/app after countdown |
| **>** | Template (Alias): Create alias to last executed command |
| **!** | Template (Sub Anchor): Create anchor as subfolder of last executed |
| **&** | Template (Sub Markdown): Create markdown note in same folder as last executed |
| **`** | Show history viewer |
| **?** | Show keyboard shortcuts |
| **Cmd+Shift+H** | Open User Guide (HTML documentation) |

## Creating Commands

### Method 1: Using Templates

1. Open HookAnchor (your configured trigger key)
2. Press a template key (e.g., `%` for anchor)
3. Enter the command name
4. Edit details if needed
5. Save the command

### Method 2: Using the Grabber

1. Open HookAnchor
2. Press `+`
3. Enter a name
4. Wait for countdown
5. Click the target window
6. Command is created automatically

### Method 3: Markdown Files

Create commands in markdown files within your configured `markdown_roots`:

```markdown
# My Commands

Terminal : app Terminal
Chrome : app Google Chrome
GitHub : url https://github.com
```

### Method 4: Direct Configuration

Edit `~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml` to add custom functions and templates.

## Tips and Tricks

### Quick Access Patterns

1. **Two-letter shortcuts**: Name frequently used commands with 2-3 letters
   - `gh` → GitHub
   - `tm` → Terminal
   - `sl` → Slack

2. **Patch prefixes**: Use consistent prefixes for groups
   - `dev-server` → Development server
   - `dev-build` → Development build
   - `dev-test` → Development tests

3. **Smart naming**: Use descriptive but searchable names
   - Instead of: "Open"
   - Use: "Open Project Folder"

### Advanced Search

- **Patch search**: Type patch name to see all commands in that group
- **Action filter**: Type action name (app, url, cmd) to filter by type
- **Recent filter**: Recently used commands appear first

### Workflow Integration

1. **Project Anchors**: Create anchor commands for each project
   - Automatically opens folder
   - Can launch associated tools
   - Integrates with tmux if configured

2. **URL Shortcuts**: Create shortcuts for frequently visited sites
   - Work sites with work browser
   - Personal sites with personal browser

3. **Script Launchers**: Turn complex scripts into simple commands
   - Build processes
   - Deployment scripts
   - Testing suites

## Troubleshooting

### Popup Doesn't Appear

1. Verify your keyboard trigger is properly configured:
   - **macOS Shortcuts**: Check System Settings → Keyboard → Keyboard Shortcuts → App Shortcuts
   - **Keyboard Maestro**: Ensure macro is enabled and trigger is set
   - **Karabiner**: Check Karabiner-Elements is running and rule is active
   
2. Test launching manually:
   ```bash
   open /Applications/HookAnchor.app
   ```
   
3. Check HookAnchor process is running:
   ```bash
   ps aux | grep HookAnchor
   ```
   
4. Check logs for errors:
   ```bash
   tail -f ~/.config/hookanchor/anchor.log
   ```

### Commands Not Found

1. Check markdown_roots configuration
2. Force rescan with `` ` `` key
3. Verify file permissions
4. Check scanner is finding files:
   ```bash
   ha --rescan
   ```

### URL Handling Issues

- HookAnchor uses a separate URLHandler app for stability
- Check URL handler registration:
  ```bash
  /System/Library/Frameworks/CoreServices.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/LaunchServices.framework/Versions/A/Support/lsregister -dump | grep hook:
  ```
- Should show `com.hookanchor.urlhandler`

### Performance Issues

1. Reduce `max_rows` in configuration
2. Disable `merge_similar` if not needed
3. Increase `scan_interval_seconds`
4. Check log file size (auto-rotates at 10MB)

### Reset Configuration

To start fresh with default configuration:
```bash
# Backup current config, then remove it to regenerate defaults
cp ~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml ~/.config/hookanchor/config.backup.yaml && rm ~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml
# Restart HookAnchor to load defaults
```

### Restore from Backup

To restore commands from a previous backup:
```bash
# Copy an earlier version of commands.txt from backups folder
# This will load previous commands over the existing commands
cp ~/.config/hookanchor/backups/commands_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.txt ~/.config/hookanchor/commands.txt

# Or restore the cache file to replace current commands with earlier version
cp ~/.config/hookanchor/backups/cache_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.json ~/.config/hookanchor/commands_cache.json
```

Both files in the backups folder use matching timestamps, so you can restore both from the same point in time.

## Getting Help

Use the CLI help system for detailed information:

```bash
ha --help              # General help and command overview
ha --help-config       # Configuration reference
ha --help-templates    # Templates and scripting guide
```

Additional resources:
- **Logs**: Check `~/.config/hookanchor/anchor.log` for debugging
- **Issues**: Report bugs at https://github.com/oblinger/hookanchor/issues

## Action Reference

Action types specify what kind of command to execute. These are used in command definitions to tell HookAnchor how to handle the command.

| Action Type | Description | Example |
|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `app` | Launch macOS applications | `Terminal : app Terminal` |
| `url` | Open websites in default browser | `GitHub : url https://github.com` |
| `folder` | Open folders in Finder | `Downloads : folder ~/Downloads` |
| `cmd` | Execute shell commands | `List : cmd ls -la` |
| `anchor` | Navigate to project folders with markdown files | `Project : anchor ~/Project/Project.md` |
| `alias` | Reference other commands | `GH : alias GitHub` |
| `markdown` | Open markdown files in Obsidian | `Notes : markdown ~/Documents/notes.md` |
| `doc` | Open document files (Word, Excel, etc.) | `Report : doc ~/Documents/report.docx` |
| `chrome` | Open URL in Chrome | `Gmail : chrome https://mail.google.com` |
| `safari` | Open URL in Safari | `News : safari https://news.ycombinator.com` |
| `brave` | Open URL in Brave browser | `Web3 : brave https://ethereum.org` |
| `notion` | Open Notion pages | `Tasks : notion https://notion.so/tasks` |
| `slack` | Open Slack channels | `Team : slack https://team.slack.com/archives/...` |
| `contact` | Open contact cards | `John : contact john@example.com` |
| `text` | Open text files | `Todo : text ~/Documents/todo.txt` |
| `console` | Open Google Cloud Console | `GCP : console https://console.cloud.google.com` |
| `obs_url` | Open Obsidian URLs | `Daily : obs_url obsidian://open?vault=MyVault` |

Commit message:

Update USER_GUIDE installation instructions with clearer Gatekeeper bypass steps

docs/USER_GUIDE.md, after:

# HookAnchor User Guide

HookAnchor is a powerful command launcher for macOS that provides instant access to applications, files, URLs, and custom commands through a keyboard-driven popup interface.

## Table of Contents

1. [Installation](#installation)
2. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
3. [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
4. [Key Features](#key-features)
5. [Command Types](#command-types)
6. [Keyboard Shortcuts](#keyboard-shortcuts)
7. [Creating Commands](#creating-commands)
8. [Tips and Tricks](#tips-and-tricks) 
9. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Installation

### Requirements

- macOS 11.0 or later
- A keyboard trigger method (see Setup Keyboard Trigger below)

### Installation Steps

1. **Download HookAnchor**
   - Download the latest `HookAnchor-{version}.dmg` from [releases](https://github.com/oblinger/hookanchor/releases)

2. **Install the Application**
   - Open the DMG file
   - Drag HookAnchor.app to your Applications folder

3. **First Launch - Bypass macOS Security**

   Because HookAnchor is not signed with an Apple Developer certificate, macOS will block it on first launch. Follow these steps:

   a. **Try to open** HookAnchor.app from Applications (double-click)
      - You'll see: "HookAnchor cannot be opened" with "Move to Trash" option
      - Click **"Done"** or **"Cancel"**

   b. **Open System Settings**:
      - Go to **System Settings** (or System Preferences)
      - Select **Privacy & Security**
      - Scroll down to the **Security** section
      - You should see: *"HookAnchor.app was blocked from use because it is not from an identified developer"*

   c. **Approve the app**:
      - Click **"Open Anyway"**
      - Try opening HookAnchor.app again
      - In the new dialog, click **"Open"**

   **Important Notes:**
   - The "Open Anyway" button only appears briefly after you try to open the app
   - If you don't see it, try opening HookAnchor.app again, then immediately check System Settings
   - This security bypass is only needed **once** - after that, the app opens normally

4. **Grant Permissions**: Allow accessibility permissions when prompted

5. **You're Done!**: Press **Option+Space** (⌥Space) from anywhere to open HookAnchor

6. **Setup Keyboard Trigger** (choose one method below - **Option 1 is recommended**)

## Setting Up Keyboard Triggers

You can trigger HookAnchor using any of these methods:

### Option 1: Built-in Global Hotkey (Simplest - No Setup Required!)

**HookAnchor includes a native global hotkey system that works out of the box!**

By default, HookAnchor uses **Option+Space** (⌥Space) to show the popup from any application.

**To change the hotkey:**

1. Open the configuration file:
   ```bash
   open ~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml
   ```

2. Find the `global_hotkey` line (around line 21):
   ```yaml
   global_hotkey: "Option+Space"
   ```

3. Change it to your preferred key combination:
   ```yaml
   global_hotkey: "Option+`"          # Option+Backtick
   global_hotkey: "Command+Shift+Space"  # Cmd+Shift+Space
   global_hotkey: "Control+Space"     # Control+Space
   ```

4. Save the file and restart HookAnchor

**Supported keys:**
- **Modifiers**: Option, Command, Control, Shift
- **Keys**: Space, Return, Enter, `, Backtick
- **Format**: Use `+` to combine (e.g., "Option+Space", "Command+Shift+Return")

**Advantages:**
- ✅ Works from **any application** system-wide
- ✅ No third-party software needed
- ✅ No system settings to configure
- ✅ Just works!

### Option 2: Keyboard Maestro (Power Users)

If you use Keyboard Maestro:

1. Create a new macro
2. Set trigger to your desired key (e.g., Caps Lock, F13, or any combo)
3. Add action: **Open a File, Folder or Application**
4. Select: `/Applications/HookAnchor.app`
5. Enable "Reopen" option for instant triggering

### Option 3: Karabiner-Elements (Caps Lock)

For using Caps Lock as trigger:

1. Download [Karabiner-Elements](https://karabiner-elements.pqrs.org/)
2. Install and grant permissions
3. Add this rule to use Caps Lock:
   ```json
   {
     "description": "Caps Lock opens HookAnchor",
     "manipulators": [{
       "type": "basic",
       "from": { "key_code": "caps_lock" },
       "to": [{ "shell_command": "open /Applications/HookAnchor.app" }]
     }]
   }
   ```

### Option 4: Other Automation Tools

HookAnchor works with any tool that can launch applications:
- **BetterTouchTool**: Assign to gestures or keys
- **Alfred**: Create a workflow to launch HookAnchor
- **Raycast**: Add as a script command
- **Hammerspoon**: Configure in Lua script

## Getting Started

### Triggering HookAnchor

Once you've set up your keyboard trigger, press your chosen key combination to open the HookAnchor popup. The popup displays a searchable list of all your commands.

### Basic Navigation

- **Type to search** - Start typing to filter commands
- **Arrow keys** - Navigate through commands
- **Enter** - Execute selected command
- **Escape** - Close the popup

## Basic Usage

### Searching Commands

1. Press your configured trigger key to open HookAnchor
2. Start typing part of a command name
3. Matching commands appear instantly
4. Use arrow keys to select
5. Press Enter to execute

### Command Organization

Commands are organized into **patches** (groups). When you see a command like:
```
Work > Project Setup
```
This means "Project Setup" is in the "Work" patch.

### Submenus

Similar commands are automatically grouped into submenus. For example:
```
Git >
```
Pressing Enter on this opens a submenu with all Git-related commands.

## Key Features

### 1. Universal Command Launcher

Launch anything from one place:
- Applications
- Websites
- Folders
- Shell commands
- Custom scripts

### 2. Smart Search

- **Fuzzy matching** - Type "prj" to find "Project"
- **Case insensitive** - "TERMINAL" matches "Terminal"
- **Partial matching** - "doc" matches "Documents"

### 3. Markdown Integration

HookAnchor scans configured folders for markdown files and creates commands from:
- Anchor files (markdown files matching folder names)
- Code blocks in markdown
- Links in markdown files

### 4. URL Scheme Support

Use `hook://` URLs from anywhere:
```bash
open "hook://terminal"    # Opens Terminal
open "hook://slack"       # Opens Slack
```

### 5. Context Grabber

Capture context from any application:
1. Press `+` in the popup
2. Enter a name for the command
3. Wait for countdown
4. Click on any window/application
5. HookAnchor creates a command for it

## Command Types

| Type | Description | Example |
|------|-------------|---------|
| **app** | Launch macOS applications | `Terminal : app Terminal`<br>`Chrome : app Google Chrome` |
| **url** | Open websites in default browser | `GitHub : url https://github.com`<br>`Google : url https://google.com` |
| **folder** | Open folders in Finder | `Downloads : folder ~/Downloads`<br>`Projects : folder ~/Documents/Projects` |
| **cmd** | Execute shell commands | `List Files : cmd ls -la`<br>`Server : cmd npm run dev` |
| **anchor** | Navigate to project folders with markdown files | `My Project : anchor ~/Projects/MyProject/MyProject.md` |
| **alias** | Reference other commands | `Term : alias Terminal`<br>`GH : alias GitHub` |

## Keyboard Shortcuts

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| **Escape** | Close popup |
| **Enter** | Execute command |
| **Arrow Keys** | Navigate commands |
| **/** | Launch first folder matching search |
| **=** | Template: Edit command from current input |
| **;** | Template: Edit currently selected command |
| **+** | Template (Grab): Capture window/app after countdown |
| **>** | Template (Alias): Create alias to last executed command |
| **!** | Template (Sub Anchor): Create anchor as subfolder of last executed |
| **&** | Template (Sub Markdown): Create markdown note in same folder as last executed |
| **`** | Show history viewer |
| **?** | Show keyboard shortcuts |
| **Cmd+Shift+H** | Open User Guide (HTML documentation) |

## Creating Commands

### Method 1: Using Templates

1. Open HookAnchor (your configured trigger key)
2. Press a template key (e.g., `%` for anchor)
3. Enter the command name
4. Edit details if needed
5. Save the command

### Method 2: Using the Grabber

1. Open HookAnchor
2. Press `+`
3. Enter a name
4. Wait for countdown
5. Click the target window
6. Command is created automatically

### Method 3: Markdown Files

Create commands in markdown files within your configured `markdown_roots`:

```markdown
# My Commands

Terminal : app Terminal
Chrome : app Google Chrome
GitHub : url https://github.com
```

### Method 4: Direct Configuration

Edit `~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml` to add custom functions and templates.

## Tips and Tricks

### Quick Access Patterns

1. **Two-letter shortcuts**: Name frequently used commands with 2-3 letters
   - `gh` → GitHub
   - `tm` → Terminal
   - `sl` → Slack

2. **Patch prefixes**: Use consistent prefixes for groups
   - `dev-server` → Development server
   - `dev-build` → Development build
   - `dev-test` → Development tests

3. **Smart naming**: Use descriptive but searchable names
   - Instead of: "Open"
   - Use: "Open Project Folder"

### Advanced Search

- **Patch search**: Type patch name to see all commands in that group
- **Action filter**: Type action name (app, url, cmd) to filter by type
- **Recent filter**: Recently used commands appear first

### Workflow Integration

1. **Project Anchors**: Create anchor commands for each project
   - Automatically opens folder
   - Can launch associated tools
   - Integrates with tmux if configured

2. **URL Shortcuts**: Create shortcuts for frequently visited sites
   - Work sites with work browser
   - Personal sites with personal browser

3. **Script Launchers**: Turn complex scripts into simple commands
   - Build processes
   - Deployment scripts
   - Testing suites

## Troubleshooting

### Popup Doesn't Appear

1. Verify your keyboard trigger is properly configured:
   - **macOS Shortcuts**: Check System Settings → Keyboard → Keyboard Shortcuts → App Shortcuts
   - **Keyboard Maestro**: Ensure macro is enabled and trigger is set
   - **Karabiner**: Check Karabiner-Elements is running and rule is active
   
2. Test launching manually:
   ```bash
   open /Applications/HookAnchor.app
   ```
   
3. Check HookAnchor process is running:
   ```bash
   ps aux | grep HookAnchor
   ```
   
4. Check logs for errors:
   ```bash
   tail -f ~/.config/hookanchor/anchor.log
   ```

### Commands Not Found

1. Check markdown_roots configuration
2. Force rescan with `` ` `` key
3. Verify file permissions
4. Check scanner is finding files:
   ```bash
   ha --rescan
   ```

### URL Handling Issues

- HookAnchor uses a separate URLHandler app for stability
- Check URL handler registration:
  ```bash
  /System/Library/Frameworks/CoreServices.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/LaunchServices.framework/Versions/A/Support/lsregister -dump | grep hook:
  ```
- Should show `com.hookanchor.urlhandler`

### Performance Issues

1. Reduce `max_rows` in configuration
2. Disable `merge_similar` if not needed
3. Increase `scan_interval_seconds`
4. Check log file size (auto-rotates at 10MB)

### Reset Configuration

To start fresh with default configuration:
```bash
# Backup current config, then remove it to regenerate defaults
cp ~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml ~/.config/hookanchor/config.backup.yaml && rm ~/.config/hookanchor/config.yaml
# Restart HookAnchor to load defaults
```

### Restore from Backup

To restore commands from a previous backup:
```bash
# Copy an earlier version of commands.txt from backups folder
# This will load previous commands over the existing commands
cp ~/.config/hookanchor/backups/commands_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.txt ~/.config/hookanchor/commands.txt

# Or restore the cache file to replace current commands with earlier version
cp ~/.config/hookanchor/backups/cache_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.json ~/.config/hookanchor/commands_cache.json
```

Both files in the backups folder use matching timestamps, so you can restore both from the same point in time.

## Getting Help

Use the CLI help system for detailed information:

```bash
ha --help              # General help and command overview
ha --help-config       # Configuration reference
ha --help-templates    # Templates and scripting guide
```

Additional resources:
- **Logs**: Check `~/.config/hookanchor/anchor.log` for debugging
- **Issues**: Report bugs at https://github.com/oblinger/hookanchor/issues

## Action Reference

Action types specify what kind of command to execute. These are used in command definitions to tell HookAnchor how to handle the command.

| Action Type | Description | Example |
|-------------|-------------|---------|
| `app` | Launch macOS applications | `Terminal : app Terminal` |
| `url` | Open websites in default browser | `GitHub : url https://github.com` |
| `folder` | Open folders in Finder | `Downloads : folder ~/Downloads` |
| `cmd` | Execute shell commands | `List : cmd ls -la` |
| `anchor` | Navigate to project folders with markdown files | `Project : anchor ~/Project/Project.md` |
| `alias` | Reference other commands | `GH : alias GitHub` |
| `markdown` | Open markdown files in Obsidian | `Notes : markdown ~/Documents/notes.md` |
| `doc` | Open document files (Word, Excel, etc.) | `Report : doc ~/Documents/report.docx` |
| `chrome` | Open URL in Chrome | `Gmail : chrome https://mail.google.com` |
| `safari` | Open URL in Safari | `News : safari https://news.ycombinator.com` |
| `brave` | Open URL in Brave browser | `Web3 : brave https://ethereum.org` |
| `notion` | Open Notion pages | `Tasks : notion https://notion.so/tasks` |
| `slack` | Open Slack channels | `Team : slack https://team.slack.com/archives/...` |
| `contact` | Open contact cards | `John : contact john@example.com` |
| `text` | Open text files | `Todo : text ~/Documents/todo.txt` |
| `console` | Open Google Cloud Console | `GCP : console https://console.cloud.google.com` |
| `obs_url` | Open Obsidian URLs | `Daily : obs_url obsidian://open?vault=MyVault` |
